\title{}
\author{Pablo Cuesta Sierra. Group 125.}
\maketitle

**22. The following attributes are defined in a database for an investment services company:**\
b: broker\
a: asset\
o: broker office\
q: number of shares of a client\
c: client \
d: dividends paid for a share

**We know that the following functional dependencies should hold:**\
$a\rightarrow d, \{c, a\}\rightarrow q, c\rightarrow  b, b\rightarrow o$

**Given a relational schema $R(b, o, a, q, c, d)$:**


a) As we have $a\rightarrow d$, d is not part of any key. 
Also, as $c\rightarrow  b$ and $b\rightarrow o \Rightarrow c\rightarrow o$, so neither $b$ nor $o$ are part of any key (minimal superkey). Same goes for $q$.

Therefore the candidate key would be $\{ a, c\}$. 

b) No, $R$ is not BCNF, because there is a dependancy: $c\rightarrow b$, where {$c$} is not a key of $R$ - but part of the key.

c) No, $R$ is not 3NF, because there is a dependancy: $b\rightarrow o$, where {$b$} is not part of any key of $R$.


**23. Consider the following relational schemas:**

    Ticket(pname, pid, fnumber, from_airport, to_airport, 
           departure_time, date, price)

    Flight(fnumber, departure_time, from_airport, to_airport, 
           from_city, to_city)

**In addition to natural constraints (e.g. two people cannot have the same ID cardnumber), we consider the following conditions apply:**

 - Some cities have more than one airport.

 - The same flight can have different prices in different tickets.

 - Two flights cannot cover a different air route and/or depart at a different time and have a different flight number.

 - Two flights cannot depart at the same time from the same airport (this is not a constraint in real airports, we just consider it here for the  sake of the exercise).
 
 - A passenger cannot fly twice on the same flight on the same date, though we do not discard that someone might fly twice from the same airport on different flights within a day (difficult but not impossible).

**Given these conditions:**

**a. Identify all the keys of the schemas, and propose primary keys.**

For Ticket:

{pid, fnumer, date}, this could be a PK, {pid, departure_time, from_airport, date}

For Flight:

{fnumber} (most natural PK), {departure_time, from_airport}


**b. Find all functional dependencies between the attributes of the relations, avoiding redundancy(that is, if a dependency can be inferred from others, it should not be included in your answer).**

    Ticket:
pid $\rightarrow$ pname, {departure_time, from_airport}$\rightarrow$fnumber, fnumber$\rightarrow${from_airport, to_airport, departure_time}, {pid, date, fnumber}$\rightarrow${price}

    Flight:
fnumber$\rightarrow${departure_date, from_airport, to_airport}, from_airport$\rightarrow$from_city, to_airport$\rightarrow$to_city, {departure_date, from_airport}$\rightarrow$fnumber

**c. Determine the normal form of the schemas, justifying your answer.**

The normal form of Ticket is 3NF, because for example: pid $\rightarrow$ pname, and pid is not a key of the relation, but part of one.

Flight, however, is 2NF, because for example, there is the functional dep.: to_airport$\rightarrow$to_city, and to_airport is not part of a key.

**24.Prove that a schema with two attributes is always BCNF.**

We have a schema with two attributes: $R(a,b)$.
There are two options: {a,b} is a key. {a,b} is not a key.

Option 1: {a,b} is a key, therefore, the non-trivial functional dependancies are: $\emptyset$. Then it is BCNF.

Option 2: {a,b} is not a key, There are two subcases:

a) Either $a$ or (exclusive) $b$ is a key. WLG, let's assume $a$ is a key, so the only non-trivial dependancy there is, is a$\rightarrow$b. And this fulfills the definition of BCNF.

b) Both $a$ and $b$ are keys, so there are two non-trivial dependancies: 
a$\rightarrow$b, b$\rightarrow$a, where both $a$ and $b$ are keys, so still, $R$ is BCNF.